= sandex

* http://github.com/tikaro/sandex

== Description

The sandex is an index of awesome your weather is, compared to the theoretically-perfect weather in San Diego, CA.  The highest possible sandex is 100%.

This score is used to answer the question: "Is it nice enough to work outside today?"  If the sandex is high, yes: go work outside. That's because EVERY day is a work-outside day in San Diego.

Thanks to @r38y for the concept and the name.

== Features

- Given a NOAA station ID, calculate the sandex.
- Using the work of professor Ole Fanger, determine whether the temperature and relative humidity fall inside parameters for thermal comfort:
-- is the relative humidity below 60%?
-- is the temperature above minimum, but below maximum parameters?

== Requirements

- libxml-ruby >= 0.9.7
- andre-geokit >= 1.2.0
- outoftime-noaa >= 0.2.2

You can install the latter two by first ensuring you have Github added to your gem sources:

* sudo gem sources --add http://gems.github.com (only if you haven't done this once before)

And then installing them like so:

* sudo gem install andre-geokit
* sudo gem install outoftime-noaa

The NOAA gem has some separate install requirements, and must update its station list. So after you install it, make sure you:

* sudo noaa-update-stations

== Installation

To install this gem, after the aforementioned requirements:

* sudo gem install tikaro-sandex

== Usage

Get the current sandex score for your location:
Sandex.calculate(station_id, "verbose")

== Contact

John Young (john@tikaro.net)

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009 John Young. See LICENSE for details.
